Atomicity

The entire sequence of actions must be either completed or aborted. The transaction cannot be partially successful.

Consistency

The transaction takes the resources from one consistent state to another.

Isolation

A transaction's effect is not visible to other transactions until the transaction is committed.

Durability 


Oracle Database Tuning Pack
Oracle Database Tuning Pack automates the database application tuning process,thereby significantly lowering database management costs while enhancing
performance and reliability. Key features of Oracle Database Tuning Pack that are used in this guide include the following:
– SQL Tuning Advisor
This feature enables you to submit one or more SQL statements as input and receive output in the form of specific advice or recommendations for how to
tune statements, along with a rationale for each recommendation and its expected benefit. A recommendation relates to collection of statistics on
objects, creation of new indexes, restructuring of the SQL statements, or creation of SQL profiles.
– SQL Access Advisor
This feature enables you to optimize data access paths of SQL queries by recommending the proper set of materialized views and view logs, indexes,
and partitions for a given SQL workload.

Oracle Real Application Testing
Oracle Real Application Testing consists of the following key features:
– Database Replay
This feature enables you to capture the database workload on a production system, and replay it on a test system with the exact same timing and
concurrency as the production system on the same or newer release of Oracle Database.
– SQL Performance Analyzer
This feature enables you to assess the effect of system changes on SQL performance by identifying SQL statements that have regressed, improved, or
remained unchanged

Removing the first bottleneck (a point where resource contention is highest) may not lead to performance improvement immediately because another bottleneck might be revealed that has an even greater
performance impact on the system. For this reason, the Oracle performance method is iterative. Accurately diagnosing the performance problem is the first step toward
ensuring that your changes improve performance.Typically, performance problems result from a lack of throughput (the amount of work that can be completed in a specified time), unacceptable user or job response time (the
time to complete a specified workload), or both.

Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM)implements the Oracle performance method and analyzes statistics to provide automatic diagnosis of major performance problems. Because ADDM can significantly shorten the time required to improve the performance of a system, it is the method used in this guide.  Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) automates database statistics Gathering Dby collecting, processing, and maintaining performance statistics for database problem detection and self-tuning purposes.  AWR snapshot everyhour.  It is enabled by setting STATISTICS_LEVEL to Typical. Ensure that the CONTROL_MANAGEMENT_PACK_ACCESS initialization parameter is set to DIAGNOSTIC+TUNING (default) or DIAGNOSTIC to enable ADDM.  ADDM uses DB time statistics

Time Model Statistics
Time model statistics measure the time spent in the database by operation type. The most important time model statistic is database time (DB time). Database time
represents the total time spent in database calls by foreground sessions, and is an indicator of the total instance workload.
DB time includes only time spent on client processes and does not include time spent on background processes such as PMON.
PMON normally wakes up every 3 seconds to perform its housekeeping activities.

The Active Session History (ASH) statistics are samples of session activity in the database. The database samples active sessions every second and stores them in a circular buffer in the System Global Area (SGA).


High load sql - V$SQL view.
V$DB_CACHE_ADVICE - Set the value of the DB_CACHE_ADVICE initialization parameter to ON.
Allow the workload to stabilize before querying the V$DB_CACHE_ADVICE view.
SQL_TRACE - TKPROF - Execution elapsed time (exeela).

In the proactive tuning phase, you must perform tuning tasks as part of your daily database maintenance routine, such as reviewing ADDM analysis and findings, monitoring the real-time performance of the database, and responding to alerts.

Review the ADDM findings
Implement the ADDM recommendations
Monitor performance problems with the database in real time
Respond to performance-related alerts
Validate that any changes made have produced the desired effect

In the reactive tuning phase, you must respond to issues reported by users, such as performance problems that may occur for only a short duration of time, or
performance degradation to the database over a period of time.
Run ADDM manually to diagnose current and historical database performance when performance problems are reported by the users
Resolve transient performance problems
Resolve performance degradation over time
Validate that the changes made have produced the desired effect
Repeat these steps until your performance goals are met or become impossible to achieve due to other constraints.


To tune SQL statements:
1. Identify & Tune high-load SQL statements
2. Optimize data access paths
3. Analyze the SQL performance impact


CPU bottlenecks
Undersized memory structures (system global area and pga).
I/O capacity issues
Suboptimal use of Oracle Database by the application - Problems such as establishing new database connections repeatedly, excessive SQL parsing, and
high levels of contention for a small amount of data
Concurrency issues - A high degree of concurrent activities might result in contention for shared resources that can manifest in the forms of locks or waits for
buffer cache.
Database configuration issues - For example, is there evidence of incorrect sizing of log files, archiving issues, too
many checkpoints, or suboptimal parameter settings?
Short-lived performance problems - Depending on the interval between snapshots taken by AWR
Degradation of database performance over time - You can generate an AWR Compare Periods report 
Inefficient or high-load SQL statements - Performance problems caused by high-load SQL statements are diagnosed by ADDM
Object contention - Are any database objects the source of bottlenecks because they are continuously accessed
Unexpected performance regression after tuning SQL statements - page 28.
Measuring the performance before and after the change
■ Generating a report that describes the change in performance
■ Identifying the SQL statements that regressed or improved
■ Providing tuning recommendations for each SQL statement that regressed
■ Enabling you to implement the tuning recommendations when appropriate


ADDM Recommendations

Hardware changes
Adding CPUs or changing the I/O subsystem configuration
■ Database configuration - Changing initialization parameter settings
■ Schema changes - Hash partitioning a table or index, or using automatic segment space management (ASSM)
■ Application changes- Using the cache option for sequences or using bind variables
■ Using other advisors - Running SQL Tuning Advisor on high-load SQL statements or running the Segment Advisor on hot objects


DBIO_EXPECTED - 10ms - Measure the average read time of a single database block for your hardware. Typical values for hard drives are between 5000 and 20000 microseconds.

The average active sessions for a time period equals the total DB time of all sessions during this period divided by the elapsed time (wall clock time) for this period
(not clear)
The wait classes show how much database activity is consumed by waiting for a resource such as disk I/O. Values that use a larger block of active sessions represent bottlenecks caused by a particular wait class, as indicated by the corresponding color in the legend.
If you click CPU Used, then the Active Sessions Working page for the wait class appears. If you click a different wait class, such as User I/O, then the Active Sessions Waiting page appears.

■ Click Run ADDM Now to create a snapshot manually.
■ Click Run ASH Report to create an Active Session History (ASH) report to analyze transient, short-lived performance problems.

SYS$USERS - all users
sys$bacground
